From graebe at informatik.uni-leipzig.de  Tue Jul 15 10:13:01 2003
From: graebe at informatik.uni-leipzig.de
Date: Thu Oct 16 12:13:28 2003
Subject: [SD] Re: CATS (Computer Algebra Test Suite)
In-Reply-To: <200307141629.h6EGT1217810@localhost.localdomain>
References: <200307141629.h6EGT1217810@localhost.localdomain>
Message-ID: <200307150913.01067.graebe@informatik.uni-leipzig.de>

Am Montag, 14. Juli 2003 18:29 Tim Daly wrote:
> One of the results of the meeting was an agreement to pool some of
> our resources in the area of Computer Algebra systems. CA systems
> have tasks that are not central to the computer algebra problem itself
> such as graphics, help browsers, etc. They also need test suites. ...

We started such a project some years ago, but there was no much response yet. 
Please have a look at http://www.symbolicdata.org. The CVS is located on the 
UMS medicis server and you can easily join the project (with read/write 
access) if you have an account there and belong to the group 'polydata'. The 
main philosophy is -- at least in the current stage -- that of Open Source: 
collect data that _you_ use in _your_ projects and put them on the Web. Agree 
with other _interested_ people on common questions. Hence using and managing 
these data requires some programming efforts and experience, that interested 
people are usually familiar with. 

We developed some Perl tools that support the management of data (read 
sd-files and create hashes, manipulate content etc.). Please consult the Web 
documentation for more information. 

I think it is desirable to evaluate these efforts for CATS (and -- may be -- 
even to make CATS on top of SymbolicData). 

Please note that I will be out of office for about 2 months starting next 
week.

-- 
Best regards, Hans-Gert Graebe

From graebe at informatik.uni-leipzig.de  Wed Sep 15 15:15:33 2004
From: graebe at informatik.uni-leipzig.de
Date: Wed Sep 15 14:11:33 2004
Subject: [SD] Translation to XML
Message-ID: <41483265.5020303@informatik.uni-leipzig.de>

Hi friends,

I think it is time to reactivate the symbolicdata mailing list, even if 
there are only 7 people subscribed at the moment.

I made some efforts to translate the whole SymbolicData data base to 
true XML. When the project started (and XML was yet at the very 
beginning) we had much nice ideas to organize data in a way similar to 
nowadays XML standards but missed some important points (e.g., taking 
only a flat 2-level structure). Meanwhile XML and XSchema as the XML 
description language are well established and I translated most of the 
Data to that standard (please 'cvs update -dP' your sources).  Olaf 
Bachmann payed much attention to the development of tools to manage our 
data. These efforts are mainly out of date, since XML data can be 
managed with any appropriate XML-tools. Hence I propose to develop (and 
started such a part in the new xml-bin directory) only sample tools in 
the future and to focus on the collection of data.

In another project we had discussions about the legal status of data 
collections. At the moment we use the GPL to address all such questions. 
This rule is good for code but neither for documentation nor for data. 
Meanwhile there is a profound discussion of such topics at 
http://creativecommons.org (CC) and they propose different licenses.

Our discussions in the other project ended up in the proposal to license 
data under the CC Attribution license (i.e. essentially to put the data 
into the Public Domain). For the project relevant documentation the CC 
Attribution-ShareAlike license is best suited, as does the Linux 
GenToo-Project for their docu. And the SD-code is best passed under the 
GPL as it was before.

How do you think about such a change also of our legal rules?

Best regards, Hans-Gert Graebe

From graebe at informatik.uni-leipzig.de  Mon Mar 13 16:52:10 2006
From: graebe at informatik.uni-leipzig.de
Date: Mon Mar 13 16:49:47 2006
Subject: [SD] New release of SymbolicData
Message-ID: <4415952A.5080502@informatik.uni-leipzig.de>

Dear collaborators,

during my 2 weeks staying at the Special Semester on Groebner bases I
had several talks about the future of the SymbolicData Project. One of
my proposals was to further incorporate XML and OWL concepts beyond the
XML transcription of all the former data that I completed a year ago.

I used the time of the stay to prepare a first prototype of such a
design, dividing the sources in "instant data" contained in the
XMLResources subdirectory and "relational and describing data" contained
in the OWL subdirectory of the Data directory. I think this is a really
good point to start further discussion and work. There are also two
OWL-ontologies (SymbolicData.owl and Publications.owl) that can be seen
as starting point to incorporate more ontology concepts into the
OWLResources part.

Please find at the web site http://www.symbolicdata.org an updated
documentation and (in the download section) a bundle with the currently
availabe newly formatted data (I did not yet transcript the Geometry
Proof Scheme, the TestSets and the GAlgebra examples). I did also not
yet succeed to have a good Web presentation of the Data.

If on the CVS please check out a fresh copy of the data since I
reorganized the repository to remove old stuff (I backed it up on a
local machine for any case). Please contact me also to get a CVS login
or in the case you don't remember your password.

I hope this is a point of really relaunch of the Project.

Enjoy. Hans-Gert
